We saw vendor prefixes, sometimes you can't implement a vendor prefix for a certain feature though
or maybe you can implement vendor prefixes but some browsers which your users might use don't even support
these prefixed versions.
So some features simply aren't implemented in some browsers,
now the supports query can help with that.
It looks a bit like a media query but it's @supports and the condition simply is a property value
pair where you can simply check if that property and also that value, that's important, the value is not
ignored,
if that is supported by the browser.
So in the end the browser simply checks, can I read and use that? If the browser can't, then it will not
execute the code between the curly braces,
if it can, it will do so.
This is of course especially useful if you've got a bunch of code which depends on one feature,
for example you want to use the grid and obviously the grid itself depends on the grid being available
but maybe you've got some other code too which assumes that everything is positioned in a grid,
maybe your font size is adjusted accordingly or if some elements get a width of 100% so that
they look good in the grid.
Well, all of that is something you don't want to apply
if the browser doesn't support it and therefore, a supports query can be really useful.
Let's see how it works in our code.
Back in our code and here I'm in the regular shared.css file, not in the prefixed one, though of
course theoretically you would add it there too
or you should add it in the code you implement in the end
but in the normal shared.css file,
what could we check with our supports query?
Well obviously, we could check if we can really use a grid.
Now the good thing about our page is even if a browser doesn't support the grid, it will still look good
because for example, our main layout is simply a one column grid,
so if the grid is not supported, elements are just positioned beneath each other.
The biggest problem will just be that the header overlaps our main image
but that is still something we can avoid with such a query.
So we add @supports and then we check if display grid is supported.
If the browser can't parse this, the code which is in there won't get executed.
Now what's in there?
We put our body code in there, like this.
If we add body in here, then this code will only run if the grid is supported.
Now obviously, we don't care about the font family, this is not related to the grid, so let's remove it,
the other code however is related to the grid being supported.
The height of 100% is only needed if we do use the grid because we rely on the height of 100%
with our grid row of auto in the middle,
the margin should also only be set to zero
if we use the grid.
So what we do is we move our other body declaration here, that rule to be precise,
we move it above our supports query so that this will run first, then if the browser supports the grid,
this will execute and overwrite parts of the body
and in the original body, we get rid of all the grid related code,
we don't need that but we do comment in the padding top, so that we got that distance or that the content
isn't overlapped by the header
and we also keep the font family and margin zero because that should apply all the time. Now in our
supports query, margin zero is not needed,
we add it in the general rule but then the grid is only used if the browser supports it.
Now with that, we're almost done,
one thing we should overwrite here,
here we of course should set our padding top to zero, so that we overwrite the padding top we introduce
otherwise
because if we can use the grid, we don't need that, we reserve space for the header with that extra
row.
So now we can save that and reload and everything looks just as it did before because now, the
supports query kicks in,
we can see that if we inspect the body,
this is all applied, we see the grid here.
So this does kick in,
it does have an effect because our browser supports the grid. In browsers which do not support it,
we still get a decent layout even without the grid, due to our general styling here.
So this is one example of how we could use the supports query.
Please also be aware that you can use multiple conditions,
you can use AND and OR or also NOT, so something like
AND NOT to create more complex queries.
So you could check if display grid is understood but if not something else is the case.
This allows you to build more complex supports queries,
most of the time, you just need simple ones like this, so that you are able to use some Next-Gen feature
if the browser supports it but that you provide a decent fallback otherwise and the typical setup is
of course that you to define the fallback first and overwrite it with your better solution
if the supports query does allow access.